# API Backlog meeting

#### *26th of October 2022*

## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|Dawid Wróbelwski, DT|
|Jan Friman, Ericsson|
|Toshi Wakayama, KDDI|
|Yusuke, KDDI|
|Andrew Wajs, Scenera|
|Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica|
|Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica|
|Eric Murray, Vodafone|

## Agenda

1. Kick-starting API Sub-Projects
2. Discussion
3. Action Points
4. AoB


## Kick-starting API Sub-Projects

For each API Sub-Project, declare:
- When the first YAML code will be made available
- Slots for bi-weekly calls. Doodles will be send out with these slots, so the slot can be agreed. 

| Sub-Project | API owner | YAML available (week) | Slots (CET) |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| [Carrier Billing Check Out](https://github.com/camaraproject/CarrierBillingCheckOut) | TEF  | W44 | Tue (16h00-18h00)<br>Wed (11h30-14h30, 16h00-18h00)</br>Thu (11h30-14h30, 16h00-18h00)</br>|
| [Home Devices QoD](https://github.com/camaraproject/HomeDevicesQoD) | TEF  | W43 | Tue (11h30-12h30, 16h30-17h30)<br>Wed (11h30-12h30, 16h30-17h30)</br>Thu (11h30-12h30, 16h30-17h30)</br>|
| [Device Identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceIdentifier) | VODA | W48 | TBC via mail |
| [Anonymised Subcriber Identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/AnonymisedSubscriberIdentifier) | VODA | W48 | Same slot as the one chosen for Device Identifier |
| [Number Verification](https://github.com/camaraproject/NumberVerification) | DT | W44 | TBC via mail|
| [Number Verification SMS 2FA](https://github.com/camaraproject/NumberVerificationSMS2FA) | DT | W44 | Same slot as the one chosen for Number Verification |
| [Sim Swap](https://github.com/camaraproject/SimSwap) | DT | W44 | Same slot as the one chosen for Number Verification|




## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | 
| | TEF | Repository structure: <br>\* API backlog is under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/APIbacklog](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/APIBacklog)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. | 
|  | All| \* Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **Current issues** |  |  |
| [#29](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/29)  | Scenera | **API to request the status of the network**<br>There is a confirmation that this issue can be closed|
| [#47](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/47) | Ericsson, TEF | **LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal**<br>Linux Foundation does not recognise LS procedure, so CAMARA cannot send/receive LS. Therefore, this issue can be closed. |
| [#71](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/71) | TIM | **Traffic Influence** <br> TIM preferred option is to manage the API onboarding using option B in the pipeline, posting the API proposal on the [EdgeCloudWG subproject](https://github.com/camaraproject/EdgeCloud). When presented in the subproject, Fabrizio will inform  API backlog accordingly, so the group can register the proposal in the live table.|
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| [#12](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/12)  | Ericsson | **Change for API backlog**<br> Issue closed on 29th Sept |
| [#44](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/44) | Vodafone | **Device Identifier API Proposal** <br> Issue closed on 12th October |
| [#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/45)| Vodafone | **Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal** <br>Issue closed on 12th October |
| [#48](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/48) | TEF | **Device prioritisation in WiFi** <br> Issue closed on 11th Octber|
| **New issues** |  | |
| [#88](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/88) | TEF | **Issues, branches, pull requests - cleaning "API backlog Working Group"** <br> Clean-up following the instructions captured in this [Governance document](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/ProjectStructureAndRoles.md)|
  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| ~~202205026-03~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed.~~ |
| ~~20220707-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward.~~ |
| 20221027-01 | Vodafone | Open | Send proposed slots for regular (bi-weekly) calls scoping [Device Identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceIdentifier) and [Anonymised Subcriber Identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/AnonymisedSubscriberIdentifier) |
| 20220707-02 | DT | Open | Send proposed slots for regular (bi-weekly) calls scoping [Number Verification](https://github.com/camaraproject/NumberVerification), [Number Verification SMS 2FA](https://github.com/camaraproject/NumberVerificationSMS2FA) and [Sim Swap](https://github.com/camaraproject/SimSwap)|



## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 10th Nov 2022
 
