# API Backlog meeting

#### *29th of September 2022*

## Attendees

* Noel Wirzius, DT
* **Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Jan Friman, Ericsson
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* Yusuke, KDDI
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Andrew Wajs, Scenera
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* **Maria M. Briz Ruiz, Telefonica**
* Jesús Peña García-Oliva, Telefonica
* Diego González, Telefonica.
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* Eric Murray, Vodafone
* **Ivan Nieto, Vodafone**
* Saad Sheikh, Dell
* Jason Hunt, IBM
* **Mark Cornall, GSMA**
* **Gemicha West, GSMA**
* **Domingo Asiain Cordoba, America Movil**
* **Fernando Rojas Franco, America Movil**
* **Varun Talus, Airtel** 

## Agenda

1. New API proposals in the backlog
2. API backlog
3. Discussion
4. Action Points
5. AoB


## New API proposals in the backlog

- Device Identifier API
   - Owner: Vodafone
   - PR [#78](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/78)
- Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API
   - Owner: Vodafone
   - PR [#79](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/79)
- Number Verification (Mobile Connect Verified MSISDN)
   - Owner: DT, GSMA IDG
   - PR: [#89](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/89)
   - Comment: privacy management is important, and shall be thoroughly handled within the corresponding CAMARA sub-project.
- Number Verification (SMS 2FA)
   - Owner: DT
   - PR: [#90](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/90)
- Carrier Billing - Check Out
   - Owner: Telefónica
   - PR: [#91](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/91)
-  Sim Swap: 
   - Owner: DT
   - PR: [#92](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/92)
   - Comments: does this also apply to eSIM? Marks says it applies to both SIM and eSIM.

## API backlog
- PR [#77](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/77)


## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 10 [ Open: 7 (1 new), Closed: 3 ]** |
| Issue [#12](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/12)<br>Change for API backlog | Ericsson | **Update 30th sept**: <br> PR [#77](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/77) has been submitted. This issue can be closed. |
| Issue [#29](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/29)<br>API to request the status of the network | Scenera | **Update 30th Sept**: <br>No updates |
| Issue [#47](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/47)<br>LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | **Update 30th Sept**: <br>No updates  |
| Issue [#44](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/44)<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 30th Sept**: <br>PR [#78](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/78) has been submitted. |
| Issue [#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/45)<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 30th Sept**: <br>PR [#79](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/79) has been submitted. |
| Issue [#48](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/48)<br>WiFi control API | TEF | **Update 30th Sept**: <br> No comments in the thread. TEF has mailed some operators to declare their position. |
| Issue [#71]([#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/71))<br>Traffic Influence | TIM | **Update 30th Sept**: <br> Fabrizio presented the proposal. As for next steps, TIM preferred option is to manage the API onboarding using option B in the pipeline, posting the API proposal on the [EdgeCloudWG subproject](https://github.com/camaraproject/EdgeCloud). When presented in the subproject, Fabrizio will inform  API backlog accordingly, so the group can register the proposal in the live table.|
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| ~~20220526-01~~ | ~~Ericsson~~ | ~~Open~~ |~~on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work.~~ |
| ~~20220526-02~~ | ~~Ericsson~~ | ~~Open~~ |~~ on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. ~~ |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| ~~20220707-02~~ | ~~DTAG~~ | ~~Open~~ |~~to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA.~~ |
| ~~20220707-04~~ | ~~DTAG, TEF~~ | ~~Open~~ |~~to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue [#44](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/44) socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread. ~~ |
| ~~20220818-03~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Open~~ |~~Once the API onboarding and management procedures are approved by SteerCo, generate a .md file to document the overall process, including versioning management, and submit it to the Commonalities WG.~~|


## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 13th October 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * New API proposals
    * Review of API backlog status
    * Going through pending issues and action points. 
