
# API Backlog meeting

#### *12th of May 2022*

## Attendees

* **Noel Wirzius, DT**
* **Jan Friman, Ericsson**
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* **Herbet Damker, DT**
* **Andrew Wajs, Scenera**
* **Marcin Jarzab, DT**
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* **Kevin** <span class="colour" style="color:var(--vscode-unotes-wysList)"><span class="font" style="font-family:var(--vscode-editor-font-family)"><span class="size" style="font-size:1em">**Smith, Vodafone**</span></span></span>
* **Eric** <span class="colour" style="color:var(--vscode-unotes-wysList)"><span class="font" style="font-family:var(--vscode-editor-font-family)"><span class="size" style="font-size:1em">**Murray, Vodafone**</span></span></span>
* Ivan Nieto, Vodafone
* **Saad Sheikh, Dell**
* **Mariusz Donzanski, DT**
* **Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**

## Agenda

1. Kick-off
    * Introductions
    * Meeting Slots
    * Scope
    * OPAG prioritization
2. Current Issues
3. New Issues
4. AoB

## Discussion
| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **KICK-OFF** |  |  |
| Introductions | All | Repository  address: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/APIBacklog](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/APIBacklog) <br>Quick round of presentations has been made |
| Meeting Slots | TEF | Thursday 15h-16 CET/CEST, every two weeks |
| Scope | TEF, All | \* Dell: align strategical outcomes. Most of developers leveraging hyperscaler solutions, so we need to show developers value in what we are doing. <br>\* Ericsson: estimulate API consumers, specially enterprise customers (b2b market). <br>\* DT: customers understand what we have in the backlog, so they can manage their expectations and also incorporate their feedback/priorities.<br>\* TEF: CAMARA should consider feedback from OPAG, but no need to always stick to it. If one partner would like to contribute with an API which is not top priority, it is more than welcome to develop and validate it in CAMARA. |
| OPAG prioritization | OPAG | [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf)<br>DT: Discuss with Tom the responsabilities and owners of each API. |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 7 [ Open: 7 , Closed: 0 ]** |
| Issue #12<br>*-Change for API backlog* | Ericsson | \* TEF: some comments were proposed in the thread. Request for updates taking into account OPAG's feedback<br>**Way forward: move this discussion to next conf. call, and see how we can re-fine today's CAMARA backlog.** |
| Issue #2<br>*\- Add Item for Hybrid Cloud Architecture in Context of Hyperscalers* | Dell | \* DELL: The intention is to standardize API's specifically service API's consumed by Edge App providers and that can be unanimously used by hyperscalers a well<br>\* DT: CAMARA intention is precisely to work on this. <br>\* VF: VF has worked on other initiatives dealing with this problem, with APIs suitable for app developers in telco edge cloud environements. <br>**Way forward: Telco Edge APIs will be available in CAMARA repository by the end of May or first week of June. Dell to double check the APIs, and assess whether they meet the expectations and goals captured in issue #2.** |
| Issue #20<br>*\- Add new endpoint in QoD API to request available qos\_prfoiles?* |  | When do we expect to have this capability?<br>**No time to discuss it during the call** |
| *Issue #21* <br>*\- How verification for authorized recipient \(e\.g\. UE\) impacts existing QoD API* | DT | It makes reference to QoD#8, which in in turn makes reference to commonalities WS and it is tagged with 'QoD-backlog'<br>How to handle this?<br>**No time to discuss it during the call** |
| *Issue #29* <br>*\- API to request the status of the netwrok traffic* | Scenera | \* Scenera: From previous PoCs it is possible for the network to provide an indicaition of its conegestion and performacne. <br>\* TEF: What is the relation to IETF's L4S framework?<br>**No time to discuss it during the call** |
| *Issue #30*<br>*\- APIto Route Traffic to a Specific Slice on the Network* | Scenera | \* Scenera: xxx<br>\*  |
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

## AOB

1. Issues #12, #20, #21, #29 and #30 to be handled next call.
2. Next call: 26th May 2012
