API Backlog meeting

#### *23th of June 2022*

## Attendees

* Noel Wirzius, DT
* **Jan Friman, Ericsson**
* Toshi Wakayama, KDDI
* Herbet Damker, DT
* **Andrew Wajs, Scenera**
* **Marcin Jarzab, DT**
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* **Diego González, Telefonica.**
* **Eder A Marins, Telefonica.**
* **Jose Aranda, Telefonica**
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* **Eric Murray, Vodafone**
* **Ivan Nieto, Vodafone**
* Saad Sheikh, Dell
* Mariusz Donzanski, DT
* Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT

## Agenda

1. Discussion
    * Current Issues
    * New issues
2. Action Pointsun
3. AoB

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 9 [ Open: 7 (4 new), Closed: 2 ]** |
| Issue #12<br>*-Change for API backlog* | Ericsson | \* TEF: some comments were proposed in the thread. Request for updates taking into account OPAG's API backlog -> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) <br>\* Slide 2.<br><ul><li>VF: agree with Ericsson proposal on the approach, focus more on use case driven capabilities rather than the actual technology solution (network slicing).</li><li>TEF: also agree with VF and Ericsson. TEF suggest the need to map the four bullets to the OPAG defined topics in the backlog, in order to manage expectations in terms of priorities (unrealistic to have them all ready in the same timeline). TEF also asks for clarification on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA.&nbsp;</li><li>**Related Action Points: 20220526-01, 20220526-02**</li></ul>\* Slide 4. <br><ul><li>VF: struggled to find the actual use case behind geofencing.</li><li>Ericsson has explained a possible use case.&nbsp;</li><li>All: We are not sure who originally proposed this API family.</li></ul>\* Slide 5.<br><ul><li>TEF: It'd be good to compare to this API famility to OPAG backlog, and identify matching/mis-matching.</li><li>Ericsson agrees.</li><li>**Related Action Points: 20220526-01**</li></ul>\* Slide 6.<br><ul><li>TEF: before removing traffic influence, it'd be interesting to understand what traffic influence API means for OPAG. In the OPAG backlog, traffic influence (priority #5), which is separate from Application onboarding and instance management (priority #1) and QoS management (priority #3).&nbsp;</li><li>**Related Action Points: 20220526-03**</li></ul>**Update 9th June:** No progress on this issue since meeting on 25th May.<br>**Update 23th June**: n/a |
| Issue #2<br>*\- Add Item for Hybrid Cloud Architecture in Context of Hyperscalers* | Dell | \* DELL: The intention is to standardize API's specifically service API's consumed by Edge App providers and that can be unanimously used by hyperscalers a well<br>\* DT: CAMARA intention is precisely to work on this. <br>\* VF: VF has worked on other initiatives dealing with this problem, with APIs suitable for app developers in telco edge cloud environements. <br>\* TEF: Telco Edge APIs will be available in CAMARA repository by the end of May or first week of June.<br>\* **Related Action Points: 20220512-01**<br><br>**Update 9th June:** Dell did not attend the meeting to give an update on this issue. As the EdgeCloud working group now active, suggestion is to transfer this issue there and close it in Backlog<br>**Update 23th June**: n/a |
| *Issue #29* <br>*\- API to request the status of the network* | Scenera | \* Scenera: From previous PoCs it is possible for the network to provide an indication of its congestion and performance. <br>\* TEF: What is the relation to IETF's L4S framework?<br><br>**Update 9th June:** Scenera presented the uploaded [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Network%20Status%20API.md) for a "Network Status API". Use case is clear - providing a indication of network connectivity status to a management system for cellular-connected video cameras to allow video quality optimisation. Devices would be identified by GPSI. Main discussion was on the nature of the network status indicator.<li> The indicator would need to give an indication of : <ul><li> Expected device throughput <li> Expected device latency <li> Cell congestion </ul><li> Indicators could be absolute (e.g. Mb/s, ms) or relative (e.g. good, average, poor) as appropriate <li> Values should take into account any priority that the device would get for its tarrif <br><br> **Proposals for network status indicators should be discussed within the issue itself** <br><br>**Update 23th June**: N/A|
| Issue #47<br>\- LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | To prepare a LS reply to OPAG, to provide them with feedback on their CAMARA backlog proposal. This LS will be prepared once APs 20220526-01, 20220526-02 and 20220526-03 are closed.<br><br>**Update 9th June:** Issue not yet created. Waiting to close action points |
| Issue #43<br>Roaming Status API Proposal | Vodafone | Vodafone presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Roaming%20Status.md) for a Roaming Status API. Main discussion was on privacy and authorisation :<br><ul><li>How to ensure that the subscriber whose roaming status is being reported has consented to that?</li><li>How to ensure that the API consumer has the right to access that information?</li></ul>**Proposal:** These issues will be common to many APIs, so should be considered by the Commonalities WG. Other questions and comments on the specific API proposal can be added to issue #43<br><br>**Update 23th June**: awaiting for comments |
| Issue #44<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | Vodafone presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Device%20Identifier.md) for a Device Identifier API based on the IMEI, which is known to the network. Main discussion was on :<br><ul><li>The value in providing an option to identify the device manufacturer only, rather than IMEI or IMEI TAC</li><li>The overall value of this API to a business case</li></ul>**Proposal:** Discuss further within issue #44<br><br>**Update 23th June**: awaiting for comments |
| Issue #45<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | Vodafone presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Anonymised%20Subscriber%20Identifier.md) for an Anonymised Subcriber Identifier API, which would provide an anonymised identifier for the connectivity subscriber (i.e. SIM owner) based on the public IP address currently alloacted to the UE using that SIM. Main discussion was on :<br><ul><li>Clarification that this was an identity use case and not authentication as the end user may not be the subscriber themselves (e.g. mobile routers)</li><li>Privacy / authorisation issues as discussed above</li></ul>**Proposal:** WG participants to discuss proposal internally and add any comments or question to issue #45.<br><br>**Update 23th June**: awaiting for comments |
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
| Issue #48<br>WiFi Control API | TEF | TEF presented a [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20Proposals/Device%20Map%20And%20Prioritization%20CAMARA%20API%20Proposal.pptx) for an "WiFi control API", which would allow prioritizing traffics in a device in an home environment.<br>VF: the scope of the prioritization, is it only on Wi-Fi? TEF nods.<br>The device concept in the API includes the end-user device connected to the router.<br>VF asked whether TEF have considered TMF API for this capability. TEF explained that they decided not to go for because they are not user-friendly, and they are not handling user costent properly. <br><br>**Proposal**: WG participants to discuss proposal internally and add any comments or question to issue #48. |

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220512-01 | Dell | Open | To double check the Telco Edge Cloud APIs when posted in CAMARA, and assess whether they meet the expectations and goals captured in issue #2. |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. |
| 20220609-01 | TEF | Closed | Close issues #2 & #20 |

## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 7th July 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * TBD
