# API Backlog meeting

#### *30th of March 2023*

## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|Accenture, Giuseppe|
|Ericsson, Jan Friman|
|Orange, Ludovic Robert|
|GSMA, Mark Cornall|
|Telef√≥nica: **Jose Ordonez-Lucena (chair)**|
|Vodafone: Eric Murray, Ivan Nieto|


## Agenda


1. Discussion
2. Action Points
3. AoB



## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | 
| API backlog updated | TEF |**Description**: [Updated](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/APIBacklog.md), with the new format approved in the SteerCo . There is the recommendation to transform current .md proposal into HTML format. |
| **Current issues** |  |  |
|  [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57)  | TEF | **API proposal pipeline: from API backlog to SteerCo approval**<br> This issue has been traslated into: [PR#134](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/134) (closed) and [PR#65](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/pull/65) (open, in Governance).  |
| [#153](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/153)  | TEF | **New API proposal: Blockchain Public Address**</br> This issue is associated with [PR#154](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/154). This PR includes: <br><li> [API family proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/154/files#diff-bc4cef8af2ee8790fd4d796a87bf7d198a1c7439fd79c75ed535276b13048fac) </li><li>[YAML](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/154/files#diff-bc4cef8af2ee8790fd4d796a87bf7d198a1c7439fd79c75ed535276b13048fac) <br> Thread discussions include TEF, DT and GSMA comments. <br> The aim is to get this PR closed by the end of next week, in order to take it for approval to next Steering Committee.<br><br> **Q&A** <br> GSMA note that it might not be the right time to start working on this API -- not clear readiness/maturity of underlying operator systems. There's a need to have a soutbound mapping a blockchain system that does not exist as of today. <br> Orange comment that this API does not necessarily require blockchain, but a wallet instead. So no need to have an interoperable cross-operator blockchain. <br> TEF agree that blockchaing concept in this API proposal might be misleading, and that wallet wording is far more accurante. <br> GSMA comment that despite this clarification, it seems this API will be built atop on "X" system that may not exist now. If so, the Sub-Project is not ready to be kicked-off. <br> TEF comment that Product Team can provide further details on background, market opportunities and underlying system(s) inherent to this API, and suggest GSMA to join a session with Product Team to ask for clarifications. GSMA agree (AP 20230330-1). <br> VODA ask which are the next steps before next SteerCo (13th April). TEF clarify that the aim for this and next week is to a) keep receiving comments and b) get support from the different companies, capturing this support in the backlog table. By the end of next week, the results will be sent out to SteerCo mail list, informing them about poll scheduled for 13th April.| 
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| [#144](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/144)  | TEF | **Create API family Consent and Identity**</br> This issue has been traslated into: [PR#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/116) (closed), [PR#129](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/129) (closed) and [PR#135](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/135)  (closed) |
| **New issues** |  | |
| | | |
  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20230330-01 | TEF | Open | Schedule an ad-hoc call for questions/issues on the API proposal, involving GSMA and TEF Product Team. |
| |  | | |




## AoB

Next call schedule: 13th April 2023
 
