
# API Backlog meeting

#### *2nd Feb 2023*

## Attendees

| |
| --- |
|Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica|
|Rubén Barrado, Telefonica|
|Eric Murray, Vodafone|
|Iván Nieto, Vodafone|
|Robert Ludovic, Orange|
|Ravi Guntupalli, Cisco |
|Jan Friman, Ericsson|

## Agenda


1. Discussion
2. Action Points
3. AoB



## Discussion

| **Agenda  Item**  |  Owner| Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** | | 
| AP 20220119-01 | WG participants |**Description**: WG participants to declare their support to the API proposal<br>**Status**: Closed. </br>**Means of verification**: DT, Orange and Ericsson have been added as supporters. Vodafone and Cisco are sync'ing internally. |
| AP 20220119-02 | TEF | **Description**: Update backlog live table, registring the new API proposal with a new entry<br>**Status**: Closed</br>**Means of verification**: see last entry in [PR#131](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/131)  | 
| AP 20220119-03 | TEF | **Description**: Merge PR#116 (proposal on creating a new API family on Identity and Consent). <br>**Status**: Closed </br>**Means of verification**: see [PR#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/116) | 
| **Current issues** |  |  |
|  [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57)  | TEF | **API proposal pipeline: from API backlog to SteerCo approval**<br> This issue has been traslated into: <br>- [PR#134](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/134) -> closed</br>- [PR#65](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/pull/65) -> open (in Governance).  |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| |  |  |
| **New issues** |  | |
| [#144](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/144)  | TEF | **Create API family Consent and Identity**</br> This issue has been traslated into: <br>- [PR#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/116) -> closed <br>- [PR#129](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/129) -> closed</br>- [PR#135](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/135) -> open.  |
  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
 | ~~20230119-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~WG participants to declare their support to the API proposal.~~ |
| ~~20230119-02~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~Update backlog live table, registring the new API proposal with a new entry.~~ |
| ~~20230119-03~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ |~~Merge [#116](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pr/116) after this call.~~ |




## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 16th Feb 2023