# API Backlog meeting

#### *18th of August 2022*

## Attendees

* Noel Wirzius, DT
* **Jan Friman, Ericsson**
* **Toshi Wakayama, KDDI**
* **Yusuke, KDDI**
* Herbet Damker, DT
* Andrew Wajs, Scenera (excused)
* **Marcin Jarzab, DT**
* **Jose Ordonez-Lucena, Telefonica**
* **Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica**
* Diego González, Telefonica.
* Eder A Marins, Telefonica.
* Jose Aranda, Telefonica
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* **Eric Murray, Vodafone**
* Ivan Nieto, Vodafone
* **Saad Sheikh, Dell**
* Mariusz Donzanski, DT
* **Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT**
* **Jason Hunt, IBM**

## Agenda

1. Discussion
    * Guidelines
2. Action Points
3. AoB

## Discussion

TEF has addressed AP 20220804-01, uploading a new (and the last) PPT  with the feedback received last week, incorporating IBM comments and others received off-line. The PPT is uploaded [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/20220818-CAMARA-API-onboarding-and-handling-process%20.pptx).

It was presented the novelties with respect older version, to seek for consensus. There were a couple of aspects that raised discussion:
- Timing for API backlog -> it was decided to keep time windows 1 and 2 separate (as originally proposed), but define a upper duration for their sum -> from the time proponent submits the proposal until each company declares their support/no support, a maximum of 2 regular conf. calls in between (around 6 weeks). If there is a need to speed the process up for some reason, let's schedule weekly calls. 
- Quota definition for reaching consensus at SteerCo.

Once the process is agreed, an action plan was defined:
- to let Markus know that there is an agreement on the new process for API onboarding and management in CAMARA. Ask for a slot in next SteerCo to present golden nuggets. 
    - **AP 20220818-01 (TEF)**
-  to prepare a short version of the [PPT ](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/20220818-CAMARA-API-onboarding-and-handling-process%20.pptx), for presentation in next SteerCo.
   -   **AP 20220818-02 (TEF)**
-   Once approved by SteerCo, generate a .md file to document the overall process, including versioning management, and submit it to the Commonalities WG.
    - **AP 20220818-03 (TEF)**


| Agenda Item | Who | Description |
| ----------- | --- | ----------- |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 9 [ Open: 6 (0 new), Closed: 3 ]** |
| Issue #12<br>*-Change for API backlog* | Ericsson | **Update 4th August**: N/A  |
| Issue #29 - API to request the status of the network | Scenera | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| Issue #47<br>\- LS Reply to OPAG on backlog proposal | Ericsson, TEF | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| Issue #44<br>Device Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 4th August**: N/A |
| Issue #45<br>Anonymised Subscriber Identifier API Proposal | Vodafone | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| Issue #48<br>WiFi control API | TEF | **Update 4th August**: N/A|
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
|  |  |  |

  
## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20220526-01 | Ericsson | Open | on slides 2 and 5 from  [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf), to map bullets to the OPAG backlog topics, to align CAMARA-OPAG work. |
| 20220526-02 | Ericsson | Open | on slide 2 from [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/APIBacklog/documentation/Contributions/API%20backlog%20proposal%20for%20change.pdf) from to clarify on the relationship of the first bullet (service ordering with SLA requirements) with the QoD API already posted in CAMARA. |
| 20220526-03 | TEF | Open | to ask OPAG for clarification on the differences between traffic influence and QoS management, and the relationship between traffic influence and the Telco edge APIs. We need to wait until CAMARA-OPAG ToR is signed. |
| 20220707-01 | TEF | Open | Generate a branch directory compliant with CAMARA 'ways of working'.<br>Upload a live '.md' file for the API backlog, and inform WG participants of way forward. |
| 20220707-02 | DTAG | Open | to check OPAG Block A work in roaming, and identify differences/touchpoints between planned work in CAMARA. |
| 20220707-04 | DTAG, TEF | Open | to analyze the 2 use cases proposed by VF for issue #43 socializing them internally, and post feedback/comments in the issue thread.  |
| ~~20220804-01~~ | ~~TEF~~ | ~~Closed~~ | ~~oto include IBM proposal on Sub-project info into these guidelines, and agree on it at next conf. call~~ |
| 20220818-01 | TEF | Open | to let Markus know that there is an agreement on the new process for API onboarding and management in CAMARA. Ask for a slot in next SteerCo to present golden nuggets.|
| 20220818-02 | TEF | Open | to prepare a short version of the [PPT ](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/20220818-CAMARA-API-onboarding-and-handling-process%20.pptx), for presentation in next SteerCo. |
| 20220818-03 | TEF | Open | Once the API onboarding and management procedures are approved by SteerCo, generate a .md file to document the overall process, including versioning management, and submit it to the Commonalities WG. |


## AoB

1. Next call schedule: 2nd September 2022
2. Next call agenda:
    * Going through pending issues and action points. 
