*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 18th May 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
| Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom | 




## Agenda

* **PRs to be merged**:
  - **API guidelines to add subscription/notification/event**
  - **API guidelines - OAS version**
* **Review of issues**
* **AOB**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|             |             |

## Issues that can be closed

## Issues that can be converted to discussions


## PRs that can be merged
PR [#173](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173) 

PR [#214](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/214) 


## AOB

Next meeting will take place on 1st of June.
Presentation of OpenID Foundation for CAMARA is planned for that call - more details will follow on mailing lists (including Identity and Consent Management subproject)
