# MOM-2023-01-12

*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 12th Jan 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
|To be added  |
| Shilpa Padgaonkar | Deutsche Telekom |

## Agenda

* **PR created in API Backlog to request in steering to create new subproject for Identity&Consent** https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/116 
* **Review of open issues and PRs**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue [#101](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/101) | Participants to propose options on how a more generic identifier can be added to the requests. |
| Issue [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60)<br>PR #68 | <ul><li>Follow-up on created action points from last year:<ul><li>ActionItem for TEF: Clarify somewhere in the document (footnote, annex, etc.) that the fact an app violates user consent has legal implications, and that these implications need to be captured in the contractual relationship between ASP and operator (the contract need to be signed before app on-boarding and purpose registration). This is a recommendation from E///</li><li>ActionItem for All (TEF, Orange, DT, E///): Asesss feasibility to "trigger a direct interaction between the network operator and the end-users to capture consent during user application journey" , following recommendations from Orange, E/// and DT.</li><li>ActionItem for TEF + Interested participants: Study tenets captured in  [https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/](https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/ "https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/"), as a reference for translating T&C into machine-readable vocabulary, already defined purposes. This is a recommendations from DT.</li><li>ActionItem for E///: Send TEF further information on 3GPP work on user consent (WG + work/study item).</li><li>ActionItem for DT: Make a proposal in Steering call to start a new subproject for Identity&Consent. This topic is too complex to be sorted as one of the many discussion points in Commonalities WG. This subproject will also deliver APIs for consent management. Until this new subproject is created, work will continue in the existing issue and PR.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| Issue [#105](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/105)|Should we extend the [Glossary](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Glossary.md) with this request? |
| Issue [#108](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/108) | Schedule a presentation from Dawid |
| Issue [#99](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/99)| This is now turning into a stale issue unless some participant nominate themselves to drive this forward by making some proposals for a concept) |
| Issue [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61)| DT plans to make the first contribution for QoD tests |
| Issue [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57)|Format of this doc is almost finalized and was shared in the API-Backlog meeting. Issue can be closed once the document is updated and added to the backlog repo |

## Issues that can be closed
* Issue [#75](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/75): This issue will be closed after the meeting tomorrow.

## AOB

1. Wishing you all good start in the new year
2. Once every month, the steering call is in the same timeslot as the commonalities. We can decide how we want to reschedule on this particular day.
3. Agenda of the meeting will be added one day in advance as PR for MoM doc and will be committed with the complete MoM content after the meeting.
4. Thank you!
